Hello, everyone, and welcome to this new hands on project
on bank loan approval prediction.
Using artificial neural networks, artificial intelligence
and machine learning have been transforming the banking
industry in many aspects, such as automatic fraud detection,
bank customers, segmentation and robotic process automation.
In this hands on project, we will assume that you work as
a data scientist at the bank and the bank management team
would like Toa build and train a simple, deep neural network
model to predict the likelihood off customers buying personal
loans based on their features, such as their age, experience,
income, family education and credit card information as well.
You guys can add this project to your portfolio of projects,
which is essential for your next job interview.
And you can simply apply this project to predict customer's
credit worthiness and also increase the effectiveness
off the bank Marketing strategy.
For those of you guys who are new to Rhyme, Rhyme is
an online platform for hands on projects creation.
It will allow you guys to learn by doing so on the right hand
side. You should see the recorded videos.
You can pause the videos at any time you want,
and on the left hand side, you will see rhymes.
Virtual machine.
Simply put, it's a pre configured cloud desktop with all
the software preinstalled and ready for you to use.
So you don't have to worry about any installation issues
or any problems.
Just go ahead, follow along and code with me.
Please note that this project is a beginners to intermediate
level project and it has some prerequisites.
It requires basic python programming and basic knowledge
off machine learning as well.
All right, so let's go ahead and get started.
So you guys should be able to see a Jupiter notebook here
entitled bank loan Approval using artificial neural networks.
And you should be able to also see the C S V file, which is
the data that we are going to use in this project.
And it's entitled universal bank dot C s V.
Please go ahead and click on the Jupiter notebook and it
should open separately here in a new tab.
As you guys can see here, it might take, I would say a couple
of seconds for it to load, but essentially, here
in this Jupiter notebook, I included all the information that
you will need in one place, so you should be able to see all
the slides, all the codes, all the outcome or the outputs
from all the codes.
I added.
Also, extensive number off many challenges.
So there's many challenge pretty much in every task, and they
also included the solutions for the many challenges as well.
So let's go ahead and actually walk you through it.
So as you guys can see here here again, I have my all
the slides are embedded in here.
So and you will also notice that we divided the project
into a series off manageable tasks.
So in Task Number One, for example, we will understand
the problem statement and business case.
And then in task number two, we will import our data sets
and our libraries.
And then as you scroll down here, you should be able to see
as I mentioned.
Also, there is many challenges.
So I'm going to ask you guys to please pause the video
an attempt to solve the many challenges on your own.
And then afterwards I will include a detailed video
explanation off the mini challenge, and I also included
the many challenge solutions for you guys here at the end
of the notebook.
So if you scroll down at the end of the notebook, you
should be able here to see all the many challenge solutions.
And, um, I highly recommend that you guys do not check
these solutions and attempt to solve the many challenge
on your own, and that will help you guys, like, you know,
practice and learn by doing.
And that's the objective, essentially off using Rhyme
and using these hands on projects.
So as I mentioned Task number three, who will perform
exploratory data analysis in Task number four, we
will perform data visualization.
And then again, you should be able to see a lot of many
challenges along the way.
So there is a mini challenge actually coming up here.
So there is a mini challenge here.
Many challenge number three on there in task five.
We will prepare the data before training our model.
And then in task number six, we will understand the theory
and intuition behind artificial neural networks.
And how do we build them and how do we train them as well?
And if you scroll down and task number seven, we will learn
how to build a simple multi layer artificial neural network.
And then, in Task number eight, we will compile and train our
deep learning model.
And finally, in Task number nine, we will assess
the performance off the train model.
Okay, and that should simply conclude our project.
So let's go up and cover task number one.
Okay, So as I mentioned Task and test number one, we
will cover the problem statement and business case.
So in this hands on project, we will assume that you work as
a data scientist at the bank.
And also, as I mentioned, the bank management team would
like toa build, train and deploy a simple, deep neuron
network model that will be able to predict the likelihood
off liability customers.
And when we say liability customers, these are depositor
customers.
These are people or customers who deposit money in the bank.
And simply the bank would like to take identify
those customers and kind of, you know, like like make them
by personal loans.
So the idea here is to try to essentially make money.
We want them to issue them loans so the bank would be able
to charge them interest and The point is, we wanted to target
those customers.
So to do that, we want to know their age, their experience,
their income level, their location, family education level,
existing mortgage if they have an existing mortgage
with the bank or not.
And we also want to know if they have a credit card with our
bank also or not, because all these factors play a big role
in the acceptance off customers.
To these, I would say marketing strategies, which is again
asking them toe by our personal loans.
So there is a company or a startup named Lindo included
a link here Thio the website and it's actually leading
startup that uses advanced machine learning strategies
to analyze over 12,000 features from various customers.
And the idea here is that we wanted to predict the customer's
credit worthiness so it actually go beyond the banking
information so you can look at social media account use geo
location, data, tons of information that can kind of tell you
if this customer has a high credit worthiness or not.
And essentially this guy, you know, like in the US and Canada,
there is credit score, and this kind of you know,
like a number that, like banks, could use toe identify
the credit worthiness.
However, for I would say, growing growing countries,
these credit scores, I would say I'm not readily available.
And that's where Lindo machine learning and artificial
intelligence algorithm actually worked really well.
To try to analyze all that data and provide that information
toe banks to get an idea off the credit worthiness
off various customers.
So the long story short, we are going to train on artificial
Neural network to take in all these features such as age,
experience, income, location and essentially here will tell
me if that customer is going to accept that loan or not.
Okay, so it's essentially classifications problem.
It's either yes or no.
All right, Okay, so as I mentioned, most, bank customers are
currently depositors, and the bank would like to target some
of these customers an issue to them personal loans,
and the bank would like to retain those depositors.
So we actually wanted to keep those good customers to us
and kind of sell them more products like convert them
to personal loan customers, and that obviously
will contribute to the bank, bottom line and the bank issued
already a marketing campaign in the past, and this marketing
campaign has resulted in 9% success rate.
And what the bank management team would like to do is would
like to analyze this campaign.
We just want to know which off these customers actually
accepted our marketing strategy.
Like, who are these 9% people?
What are their features?
You know, like and and once we train that a. I model to kind
of learn all the features for those customers who accepted
our person alone offer before that will help us in the future.
Tow target, you know, customers with similar features.
So here are somebody off the features.
So we have I D.
Which is a customer, I d.
We have the age.
We have the experience number of years professionally that
they worked, um, that obviously affect their decision making
process.
Their annual income, their ZIP code, the location, of course,
affect their acceptance off these personal loans.
We have their family the size of the family.
We have their C C average, which is the average spending
on credit card per month.
We have the education level, we have the mortgage.
If we have the value of their house mortgage.
We have personal loans, and that's essentially our I
would say the target variable.
That's what we're trying to predict.
So we're essentially trying to predict whether the customer
will accept our personal loan offer to them or not.
That's the idea.
We also have securities account if the customer have
securities, account with the bank or not.
We also have the 100 account, which is certificate
off deposit account with the bank.
We also want to know if the customer use Internet banking
facilities or not.
And that's the online feature.
And also we have the credit card feature, which is not
the customer use credit card issued by Universal Bank or not.
All right, okay.
So a little bit about myself.
My name is Ryan Ahmad.
I'm on edge on professor and online instructor.
I'm passionate about artificial intelligence.
Machine learning and electric vehicles on have taught
over 200,000 students globally, and I hold an MBA PhD
and the masters of applied science as well.
Okay, Alright.
So that's all I have for task number one.
I hope you guys enjoyed it in test number two.
Let's go ahead and start coding.
Together we will import our data sets and our libraries
and we'll get started with our project.
I hope you guys enjoy this lecture and see you in the next
one.